---
categories:       blog
date:             2024-07-25
description:  >-
  Ways to increase productivity during work
lang:             en
last_modified_at: 2024-07-25
layout:           post
tags:
- Work
title: >-
  Deep Work
layout:           style
name: >-
  Deep Work
---

# Deep Work

I picked up this book after reflecting on my overuse of technology and ways to live fuller. Reading the book was largely meant to reconfirm my reflections, which, in fact, turned out to be correct or at least similar to its contents. Newport basically makes the distinction between deep and shallow work as one of cognitive demands. Deep work is work that requires distraction-free environments and is rather difficult; it relates to the idea of flow if you are similar to that. Shallow work is the kind of work that requires the least effort, similar to the idea of busy work. 

Part 1 of the book details more of the pragmatic arguments for deep work on how it is beneficial and hard to come by. I don't think I need to restate that argument, so for Part 1, I will focus on the interesting part, which is why deep work is meaningful. Part 2 of the book discusses the rules for achieving deep work and provides some arguments related to the rules. What I highlight for Part 2 is the discussion of Bimodal Philosophy (Basically Work-Life Balance) and quitting life.

What I will write is highly related to previous blog posts I wrote on Digital Hedonism, Experience of Time, My Productivity Set-up, and Software Design. 
I'll link those under here for now.
* [My Productivity Set-Up]
* [Digital Hedonism](https://blog.yougao.dev/life/digital-hedonism/)
* [What Time is This Place?](https://blog.yougao.dev/books/what-time-is-this-place/)

## Part 1: The Ideas

CH1 and CH2 cover the topics of why deep work is rare and valuable. I feel like largely everyone can agree with that presupposition. What I feel is more in contention is CH3 which focuses on the finding meaning in deep work. There is the discussion on neurological based on the concept of "fire together, wire together" and psychological based on "flow". 

The interesting discussion for me was on self-meaning, Descartes' skepticism, and craftsmanship. The argument is similar to Nietzsche's "God is dead!" proclamation, which generally highlights the loss of meaning from previous institutions, mainly religious. This loss of meaning has cast humanity into existential anxiety, and we must now cope with the consequences. The point Dreyfus tries to illustrate is that instead of having existential meaning in the context of oneself, people can find a self-detached purpose of creation for the sake of a field. There is beauty in that as an alternative because it offers the option to focus only on developing your own selfish meaning for finding a greater purpose in the world. 


<figure class="container-lg my-6" style="padding: 0;">
 <blockquote class="blockquote" style="font-size: 18px;">
 <p> "Beautiful code is short and concise, so if you were to give that code to another programmer, they would say, "Oh, that's well-written code." It's much like as if you were writing a poem." </p>
 </blockquote>
</figure>


Reflecting on the quote, you can see why there is a sense of craftsmanship to it. I think of software design very much as an abstraction-capturing process similar to math in defining mathematical representations of the world. It is the same when determining the aesthetic qualities of software; it only feels so related to practicality because there is a sense in which the reader of code knows how the expert has captured the abstraction. This mirrors the idea that deep work is not merely about productivity but about engaging with tasks in a way that transcends mere functionality, touching on the essence of creativity and mastery. 

Also, sometimes craftsmanship isn't all about the abstractions as much as knowing how to manipulate and control them:
- [Donut Circle Code](https://www.a1k0n.net/2011/07/20/donut-math.html)
- [Quines (from the creator of Go)](https://github.com/rsc/quine)
- And so much more that we use today
- A lot of people point to Linux OS or OSI Protocols though

## Part 2: The Rules

Part 2 is sectioned off into 4 rules (Work Deeply, Embrace Boredom, Quit Social Media, and Drain the Shallows) and delves into the whys and hows for achieving them.

### Work Deeply and Embrace Boredom

These two sections can be conceptually seen as an inquiry into the question: What is good work-life balance? Newport argues for two distinctions of a work philosophy, monastic (like Knuth) or bimodal (like Jung). The goal is to illustrate two different approaches to working deeply, one where you try to separate yourself from the world and isolate yourself as much as possible, or one where you find time to work deeply while "living" as well. Safe to say, the author argues for Jung's philosophy of work than Knuth's, but there is definitely merit to both and leaves it up to the reader to decide which they would like to go towards.

I myself have chosen the "Bimodal" approach whilst joining the ThinkPad Linux cult.

### Quit Social Media and Drain the Shallows

A key side-point Newport tries to make is that Deep Work is largely a practice in intentionality and effort. Social Media and the internet as a whole, essentially removes that intentionality from the user and is inherently fragmented or unstructured. Point is to just not use the internet.


<figure class="container-lg my-6" style="padding: 0;">
 <blockquote class="blockquote" style="font-size: 18px;">
 <p> "If you give your mind something meaningful to do throughout all your waking hours, you'll end the day more fulfilled, and begin the next one more relaxed, than if you instead allow your mind to bathe for hours in semiconscious and unstructured Web surfing." </p>
 </blockquote>
</figure>


Another fun pondering he made, not necessarily a lesson, was in the benefits of quitting social media and highlighting the idea of bringing intentionality into living or rest-periods. It was a quick segment about what it means to "live" or at least experience fulfillment in life. If you do end up still wanting to use the internet, try your best to use it intentionally (it usually is impossible to).

<br/><br/>

## Citations

Attneave, F., B., M., & Hebb, D.O. (1949). The Organization of Behavior: A Neuropsychological Theory.

Csíkszentmihályi, M. (1990). Flow: The Psychology of Optimal Experience.

Newport, C.C. (2016). Deep Work: Rules for Focused Success in a Distracted World.

Kelly, H. D. a. S. D. (2011). All Things Shining: Reading the western classics to find meaning in a secular age. 