---
categories:       blog
date:             2024-08-01
description:  >-
    My goals and roadmap.sh
lang:             en
last_modified_at: 2024-08-01
layout:           post
tags:
- Work
title: >-
 roadmap.sh 
layout:           style
name: >-
 roadmap.sh 
---

# roadmap.sh

Found this site a long time ago, but I recently regained interest in it because I wanted to benchmark where I wasat currently in my career and looking at where I wanted to go. The best thing about this site is somehow, software developers have made a consensus on the common tooling and concepts that are needed in evaluating the efficacy of someone in a given role. The only thing to be weary about is that there might be updated technology that isn't added to the guides, but the general concepts should still hold. 

Another thing is, if you were to use the site as a benchmark, do not lie to yourself. roadmap.sh exists for you to be truthful about where you stand currently, so if you are on the borderline between "oh i know that", asks yourself the deeper questions like how it functions, why would you use it, where it would exist, and see if you can fully flesh-out the concepts. It is esay to want to say you know everything, but there is a tacit (know-how) dimension that needs to be recognized before marking it off.

An example from my own usage was on the first obstacle: "The Internet" and the "simple" concepts that were tied to it: How does the internet work? -> "Of course I know how the internet works, there are routers, nodes, and switches" -> But how do they work? -> "There are specific protocols in place for them to communicate with each other"" -> How do the protocls work? -> BGP Protocl -> OSI Model -> ISPs -> "Hmm maybe I don't know too well"

## My Goals

I filled out my roadmaps and made .txt files regarding the main concepts for each block with specific concepts you should master before fully feeling like a master. They are in order of how much I enjoy working in that specific role. The files also contain a symbol guide for the concepts and my own comfort levels with them. A good heurestic to go by is: don't check it off if you haven't implemented/applied the concepts somewhere. 

## 10x, 100x, and the 1000x Unicorn

After working through the developer roadmaps, I realized there wasn't a focus on the broader skillsets that a Back-end or Front-end SWE might need. So I used the AI function they had to create roadmaps for the illustrious 10-1000x programmers to create general reminders for broader technical skill upkeep. Not surprisngly, these roadmaps main topics were on programming constructs, optimization, computer architecture, operating systems, algorithms, and foundational problem solving skills. They were mainly made for the fun of it, but turned out to be pretty solid in showing what more is needed on-top of knowing how to use specific tools and understanding domain concepts.



