# Bad Design

Bad design is great. Obviously its "bad", but because its bad, its great. Why? Simply because there is so much to learn from "bad" design. However, before moving further, I want to pose the question of what calling something "bad" can provide, pedagogically to the "bad-sayer". The answer to that, I think, can be found in the realist vs anti-realist distinction. 

The caricature of an engineer embodies the position of a realist, moreso a naive realist. The world to them is governed by objective truths and these truths can be understood, measured, and applied through methods like engineering principles. And there is nothing wrong at face value with this; it is very pragmatic to take this stance as most of the curriculum is about describing the world through mathematical formulas. However, it seems to be an insurmountable challenge to engineers when tasked with the creation of anything of which requires value judgements.

To quote Steve Jobs:
>"It's technology married with the liberal arts, married with the humanities, that yields the results that make our hearts sing"

Thus enters our second character: the designer. The designer here believes that everything of the world are constructs of the mind. The world is not objectively fixed, but rather exists as a collection of constructs shaped by human perception, experience, and interpretation. To be clear, this is not the sort of anything goes interpretivist beaten horse that is commonly and rightfully critiqued. The designer here touts the middle-line of realism and anti-realism. The technqiues they employ deal with intersubjectivity, psychology, and contextual factors. But, and an important but, the designer still holds the position that these principles hold objectively in a context.[^1]. Again, it makes pragmatic sense why the designer holds this position, without it they wouldn't understand the devil that is their users.

Users. Engineers and designers are taught to love them, if not try and understand them. Usually the two just hates them. If I were to charge any of our cast with the title of being a relativist it would be users. Users always break things. On the engineering end, users overload the system, create security vulnerabilities, bypass constraints, and more generally cause a great deal of chaos. To the engineer, the user is being an incredible pest to their "perfectly designed system" by bringing in their "obviously dumb human error". On the design end, users misuse the product; straying orthogonally from the intended ux, becoming frustrated with the product and ultimatly giving the product a negative review. Now the designer has to go back to the drawing board. In product development, the user really is an enigma. 

So what does this blog's dramatis personae say on the nature of "bad" design? Not much explicitly. But if I had subtly convinced you to agree more with being a constructivist, atleast in product design, then my job is done. I argue that the position taken by the designer makes the most pragmatic sense here [^2]. The constructivist position comes in handy when dealing with the problem (or joy) of user mayhem and being able to "actually" go back to the drawing board. Bad design then, when viewed through a constructivist lens, isn’t an absolute failure; rather, it becomes a learning tool. It's an opportunity to better understand how users interact with a product and where the design can be more adaptable, intuitive, and human-centered.

<br/>
---
[^1]: In the virtue of being fair, I would also that the designer sometimes entirely skips over what can be done. This point is commonly made in the realm of building and architecture.
[^2]: I admit the term "naive realist" is moreso a perjorative, but even more intellectual thought out forms of realism still seem less "virtious" in this case. 
