---
date:             2024-08-17
last_modified_at: 2026-04-15
tags:             [sociology, phil-mind]
title:            The Presentation of Self in Everyday Life
name:             The Presentation of Self in Everyday Life
layout:           style
description:  >-
  Looking at society from the viewpoint of theatre.
hidden: true
---

# The Presentation of Self in Everyday Life

> "To use a different imagery, the very obligation and profitability of appearing always in a steady moral light, of being a socialized character, forces us to be the sort of person who is practiced in the ways of the stage."
> <figcaption class="blockquote-footer">The Presentation of Self in Everyday Life</figcaption>

The book gives a theory and a perspective to look at the social world. Acknowledging the "*problem of other minds*," Goffman sets out to functionalize the ways the social self as a performance to others. He develops the tool of "*dramaturgical analysis*" as a means to analyze social actors[^1]. 

The question I had for the book is simply: Why is there a need for performance? Language is a social technology used for communication, and I can see how it's use becomes normative. But, is there any need in being reductive about the identities a person can take on? 

## Performance

The idea of "*performance*" drawn out in this book is intuitive. Playing a role socially expected of you. These categories have well-defined expectations in "*mindsets*" and "*behaviors*" with their medium being us. 

## Front and Backstage

As part of a theater, there is the "*front stage*" where the performance occurs, and behind the curtains, "*backstage*". The distinction of these two in "*dramaturgical analysis*" is most cynical to me. It states that from my perspective, I could never get to know the "true other." Any perceptions of the other will always be the front stage of what goes on.

However, I don't think Goffman is exactly as fatalistic because he states that you can have glimpses into the backstage, but not fully, as you don't have access to another person's mind. Such situations backstage are finding out the "*true*" nature of someone, hearing gossip that was always behind your back, and so forth.

A common critique of Goffman's work on the front and backstage is that the distinction between the two is not entirely clear. But that is by design. Similar to how actors have to deal with the question of internalizing their role, the actor becomes the role.

People situated in social contexts can be seen taking onto the attitudes of the role and even self-regulating themselves to play into them. Psychology already has a term for this: "*a self-fulfilling prophecy.*"
