_books/2024-05-21-random-walk-down-ws.md, before:

---
date:             2024-05-21
description:  >-
  My introduction to investing and markets.
title: >-
  A Random Walk Down Wall Street
layout:           style
name: >-
  A Random Walk Down Wall Street
---

<figure class="container-lg" style="padding: 0;">
    <blockquote class="blockquote" style="font-size: 18px; color: red;">
    <p style="color: #D21404;">"archival series"</p>
    </blockquote>
</figure>

# A Random Walk Down Wall Street

> "Never buy anything from someone who is out of breath."

An introduction to the concepts of investing and the types of investing possible. So when you want to understand the sudden rise of tech-stocks that seem to be motivated by "hype" in the short-term, then take a look at the castle-in-the-sky theory of value. On the flip-side, you have the firm-foundation theory of value, where the valuation of some stock will always be the underlying economic fundamentals of the company. I'm not an economist, so the book was a fun introduction to those concepts to further build upon in understanding economics. Anyways, this is one of the plenty books I want to read in order to understand the nature of economic instruments.

Commit message:

chore(fun/books): complete grammar checker

_books/2024-05-21-random-walk-down-ws.md, after:

---
date:             2024-05-21
description:  >-
  My introduction to investing and markets.
title: >-
  A Random Walk Down Wall Street
layout:           style
name: >-
  A Random Walk Down Wall Street
comment: r/wallstreetbets
---

<figure class="container-lg" style="padding: 0;">
    <blockquote class="blockquote" style="font-size: 18px; color: red;">
    <p style="color: #D21404;">"archival series"</p>
    </blockquote>
</figure>

# A Random Walk Down Wall Street

> "Never buy anything from someone who is out of breath."

An introduction to the concepts of investing and the types of investing possible. So when you want to understand the sudden rise of tech-stocks that seem to be motivated by "hype" in the short-term, then take a look at the castle-in-the-sky theory of value[^1][^2]. On the flip-side, you have the firm-foundation theory of value, where the valuation of some stock will always be the underlying economic fundamentals of the company. I'm not an economist, so the book was a fun introduction to those concepts to further build upon in understanding economics. 

<br/>
---
[^1]: See [keynesian beauty contest](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Keynesian_beauty_contest)
[^2]: Explains the current state of pokemon-card scalping.
