---
categories:       blog
date:             2024-07-10
description:  >-
  The development of the self and others.
lang:             en
last_modified_at: 2024-08-21
tags:
- Book-Review
title: >-
  Mind, Self, and Society
layout:           style
name: >-
  Mind, Self, and Society
---


<figure class="container-lg" style="padding: 0;">
    <blockquote class="blockquote" style="font-size: 18px; color: red;">
    <p style="color: #D21404;">"archival series"</p>
    </blockquote>
</figure>

# Mind, Self, and Society

<figure class="container-lg" style="padding: 0;">
    <blockquote class="blockquote" style="font-size: 18px;">
    <p>"The self is something which has a development; it is not initially there, at birth, but arises in the process of social experience and activity."</p>
    </blockquote>
</figure>

The book is a seminal work for a reason. No other piece of literature has illustrated the construction of the self as situated objects between historical and social contexts than Mead's work. Through the book Mead provides several distinctions on social acts, the "I", the "Me", and expands on the notion of the "other". In constructing the social world, there is a sense of clarity between the interacting forces and relation. Atleast for me, it made clear some of the reasonings about a subject's agency, acts, and appearance. The key further implication I came up of is with the reflection of normative acts. Society requires normativity in behaviours and acts, but looking at it from the perspective of the self in relation to society: these normative acts are a result of our own faculties as subject's and become normative insofar as our usage of normativity is espoused in agreement. So if you want to learn more about how the self is constructed and interact from a sociological viewpoint; this is a great book.

## Citations

Mead, G. H. (1934). Mind, self and society. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mind,_Self_and_Society