---
date: 2025-05-12
description:  >-
    *insert set theory joke*
title: >-
    What They (Do/Don't) Teach You at HBS
layout: style
name: >-
    What They (Do/Don't) Teach You at HBS
---

# What They Don't Teach You at HBS

> "The best lesson anyone can learn from business school is an awareness of what it can't teach you."
> <figcaption class="blockquote-footer">What They Don't Teach You at HBS</figcaption>

I picked up these two books largely for an unserious read, but I did approach it open-mindedly. They were both "*good*" in their own ways, and I can say that I did gain something, although it wasn't directly from the words etched onto the books. It was more so the assurance that people going into business are actually very human underneath; they are just hyper-aware of the game being played.

Look no further than McCormack's "*What They Don't Teach You at HBS*" to illustrate the world of business. Part 1 was about "*reading people*" and how important that is in the business of business. Part 2 writes on "*the art of the deal*," how to sell someone on something and close out a deal. Part 3 is all about "*management and culture*." All of which contains endless streams of analogy and parables based on McCormack's dealings.

Part 1 wasn't bad, but it wasn't great. Having read Erving and Goffman, reading McCormack's explanation of a person's "*true self*," impression management, and utilizing it to your own benefit seemed a bit banal. Especially given that McCormack is approaching it solely from a business view instead of a sociological view. The corollary point: incessantly attempting to read every one and even yourself by instrumentalizing everything is pretty neurotic.

Part 2, I summed up myself as "*just game theory*." McCormack is basically saying that after reading the other person, the "*negotiating table*" is solved by understanding each other's utility function fully and fleshing out all the lines that could be taken. It aptly reinforces the idea that a lot of economics and business can be boiled down to an "*information game*" being played out by everyone. The takeaway here is that an "*acute*" business person needs to be on about the same level as a chess player "*in the field*."

I skimmed Part 3 and don't really remember much of it.

# What They Teach You at HBS

> "Of the class of 1985, who graduated into one of the great stock market booms, sixty-five were prosecuted for securities violations."
> <figcaption class="blockquote-footer">What They Do Teach You at HBS</figcaption>

Something, something Porter, something, something Piketty, something something, Tirole. The book itself was more of a memoir by Broughton, which makes sense because before going to HBS, he was a journalist. I heavily skimmed through the book and found the "*economic talk*" was *almost* hot air. What I found incredibly enticing and interesting to read about was the author's desire to discuss ethics throughout the book.

Ethics, especially in a book about HBS, is really interesting and really funny[^1][^2]. Broughton doesn't fail to make that message clear. A particular case was when Broughton found out that most of his classmates "*cooked their books*" to receive more financial aid by clearing their accounts.

The other was the more philosophical discussion of even the idea of "*business ethics*" in light of the goal to "make profits." If the market **will** punish people efficiently as well as reward them, doesn't it make sense to **try** to *lie, cheat, kill and steal?*.


<br/>
---
[^1]: At UVA, we get honor reports, which basically are reports on all the cheating and misconduct allegations. The business school here never fails to be the largest % which either means they tend to be cheaters or extremely accusative of each other.
[^2]: I heard that the title of this book changed after the housing market crash to what it is now.
