---
date:             2024-10-13
last_modified_at: 2026-04-08
tags:             [random, language]
title:            Anatomy of a Quote
name:             Anatomy of a Quote
layout:           style
description:  >-
    What makes a quote good?
comment: anatomy of a ____ reference
hidden: true
---


# Anatomy of a Quote

What makes a quote good? I don't know. I will attempt to figure it out in this blog post. 

My .bashrc contains a script to print out a quote. The quote list is a hodgepodge of many quote .txt files I compiled. Every time I open up my terminal, I get a thought-provoking quote. After reading a good deal of them, it made me wonder about the structure of a good quote.

To give an idea of what they look like:

> "It's not about how hard you can hit; it's about how hard you can get hit and keep moving forward."
> <figcaption class="blockquote-footer">Rocky</figcaption>

> "To see things in the seed, that is genius."
> <figcaption class="blockquote-footer">Lao Tzu</figcaption>

> "Iron rusts from disuse; water loses its purity from stagnation... even so does inaction sap the vigor of the mind."
> <figcaption class="blockquote-footer">Leonardo da Vinci</figcaption>

At first glance, I saw three broad categories under which a "*good*" quote could fall: "*motivational*", "*insightful*", and "*reflective*". Then, you have the linguistic structure, which relies on the rhetorical skills of the quote, such as the word count or flow. Another key factor of a good quote is the writer. Who the person is and is not definitely adds weight to the quote. 

Take the da Vinci or Rocky quote. Both of them motivate towards a go-getting and move-forward attitude. As a motivating force, that is perfectly fine to me. Go you! But, taking quotes beyond face level gives me a sense of unease. 

The da Vinci quote makes good points about needing to be in flux. But what about the importance of resting da Vinci? Inaction need not be negative. And to Rocky: doesn't being too persistent lead to being hard-headed?

Borrowing from ethics, these motivational quotes tend to be normative statements. Normative statements prescribe what you ought to do. Rocky says to get back up and persevere. Da Vinci says to be active in life. Why? Because it is virtuous to do so. 

The other type is called positive statements. These statements describe or say something of the world. Laozi's quote is a positive statement. It describes what a genius is and the functions of a genius. 

