---
date:             2025-05-26
last_modified_at: 2026-04-08
tags:             [media]
title:            Satellite TV
name:             Satellite TV
layout:           style
description:  >-
    Thoughts on satellite TV as ambient media—comforting, low‑stakes noise that fills space without demanding attention.
comment: good background noise
---

# Satellite TV

Satellite TV is an artifact of the past.

The experience of flickering through the TV channels, knowing it is constrained by your local set of broadcasting stations. The dismal programming, ranging from NCIS, News, Gospels, and Live sales. It is all too humbling an experience, given how everyone has moved on to streaming services like Netflix or YouTube. If you can convert your TV to use the internet nowadays, what is left for satellite TV?

## Local News

The local news stations might be the only saving graces for satellite TV. There is a sense of community fostered when you know everyone is watching the same channel of information. Knowing collectively about the one-off events around town, the same weather forecasts, and the general talk of the town does well to bring people together. 

My experience with news networks has biased me towards thinking of all news, even local news, as "*bad*". I would have to be convinced that news isn't a form of "*entertainment*" and truly a medium from which to get "*information*".

The newer generation has a disregard and disillusionment towards "*TV media*" as something genuine. This critique isn't to say the alternative to social media is any better.

It's to say the premise of TV disseminating "*truth*" has not won out against the "*near-zero*" cost of posting something on social media. Either way, I don't trust TV media or social media.
