---
date:             2025-11-11
description:  >-
    rating state mottos
layout:           post
title: >-
    State Motto Rankings
layout:           style
name: >-
    State Motto Rankings
---

# State Motto Rankings + friends

#### 0. Puerto Rico: *Joannes est nomen ejus* — “John is his name.”
#### 1. Virginia: *sic semper tyrannis*
#### 2. North Carolina: *esse quam videri* — To be, rather than to seem
#### 3. New York: *excelsior* — Ever upward
#### 4. Kansas: *ad astra per aspera* — To the stars through difficulties
#### 5. Massachusetts: *ense petit placidam sub libertate quietem* — By the sword we seek peace, but peace only under liberty
#### 6. North Dakota: *serit ut alteri saeclo prosit* — One sows for the benefit of another age
#### 7. Maryland: *fatti maschi, parole femine* — Strong deeds, gentle words
#### 8. South Carolina: *animis opibusque parati* — Prepared in mind and resources
#### 9. Michigan: *si quaeris peninsulam amoenam circumspice* — If you seek a pleasant peninsula, look about you
#### 10. Oregon: *alis volat propriis* — She flies with her own wings
#### 11. Oklahoma: *labor omnia vincit* — Labor conquers all things
#### 12. Alabama: *audemus jura nostra defendere* — We dare defend our rights
#### 13. Kentucky: *deo gratiam habeamus* — Let us be grateful to God
#### 14. Arkansas: *regnat populus* — The people rule
#### 15. Mississippi: *virtute et armis* — By valor and arms
#### 16. Idaho: *esto perpetua* — Let it be perpetual
#### 17. New Mexico: *crescit eundo* — It grows as it goes
#### 18. Maine: *dirigo* — I lead
#### 19. Missouri: *salus populi suprema lex esto* — Let the welfare of the people be the supreme law
#### 20. Hawaiʻi: *ua mau ke ea o ka ʻāina i ka pono* — The life/sovereignty of the land is perpetuated in righteousness
#### 21. Minnesota: *L'Étoile du Nord* — The star of the North
#### 22. Colorado: *nil sine numine* — Nothing without providence
#### 23. Florida: *In God We Trust*
#### 24. American Samoa: *Samoa, Muamua Le Atua* — Samoa, let Atua be first
#### 25. U.S. Virgin Islands: *United in Pride and Hope*
#### 26. New Hampshire: *Live Free or Die*
#### 27. Indiana: *Crossroads of America*
#### 28. New Jersey: *Liberty and prosperity*
#### 29. Pennsylvania: *Virtue, liberty, and independence*
#### 30. District of Columbia: *Justitia Omnibus* — Justice for all
#### 31. Montana: *Oro y plata* — Gold and silver
#### 32. West Virginia: *montani semper liberi* — Mountaineers are always free
#### 33. Arizona: *Ditat Deus* — God enriches
#### 34. Iowa: *Our liberties we prize and our rights we will maintain*
#### 35. Georgia: *Wisdom, Justice, Moderation*
#### 36. Connecticut: *qui transtulit sustinet* — He who transplanted sustains
#### 37. Vermont: *Freedom and Unity*
#### 38. Tennessee: *Agriculture and Commerce*
#### 39. Illinois: *State sovereignty, national union*
#### 40. California: *Eureka (Εὕρηκα)* — I have found it
#### 41. Nevada: *All For Our Country*
#### 42. Nebraska: *Equality before the law*
#### 43. South Dakota: *Under God the people rule*
#### 44. Ohio: *With God, all things are possible*
#### 45. Alaska: *North to the Future*
#### 46. Texas: *Friendship*
#### 47. Louisiana: *Union, justice, confidence*
#### 48. Utah: *Industry*
#### 49. Wyoming: *Equal Rights*
#### 50. Wisconsin: *Forward*
#### 51. Delaware: *Liberty and Independence*
#### 52. Rhode Island: *Hope*

