---
date:             2026-04-25
last_modified_at: 2026-04-25
tags:             [reading, productivity]
title:            RSVP Reading
name:             RSVP Reading
layout:           style
description:  >-
    An explanation of what RSVP reading is alongside a free iOS app.
---

# RSVP Reading

"*RSVP*" stands for "*Rapid Serial Visual Presentation*". I found out about it from watching a reel of an "*ESP32*" based RSVP device. Instead of spending $30 buying the same device and flashing it, I found a free version on the app store. I wanted to go down the ESP32 route to play and learn "*microcontroller*" programming, but I have a phone, so I'll resign myself. I also wanted to write my own RSVP app, but I found an app which met my needs. The app is called [Stasis](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/stasis-rsvp-speed-reader/id6759072567). It seems to be only available on iOS.

RSVP isn't anything new. It has been studied in the [90s](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1604858/). Though, the idea has only recently become popular and well-implemented. The main benefit is the removal of "*saccadic eye movements*", which translates to "*no eye movement*". RSVP speeds up reading by getting rid of the need to scan the page. It displays single words rapidly at speeds of 300-1000 "*WPM*".

There has been previous research suggesting [increased speed decreases reading comprehension](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/29461715/). I agree with the research. However, it's a bit misleading. The papers I've read focused on comprehension as determined by the RSVP speed. I argue comprehension isn't influenced by reading speed. Instead, low reading speed is a proxy for comprehension-increasing behaviors. Reading "*slowly*" isn't reading each word one-by-one; rather, it is going back to understand a section or interpreting an unclear metaphor.

The benefit I see is the UX. Maybe I have been trained towards this format, but reading in RSVP feels "*natural*". Whatever format lets you read more is a good format.
